.TH "ramalama-run 1" 
.nh
.ad l

.SH NAME
.PP
ramalama\-run \- run specified AI Model as a chatbot

.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBramalama run\fP [\fIoptions\fP] \fImodel\fP [arg ...]

.SH OPTIONS
.SS \fB\-\-authfile\fP=\fIpassword\fP
.PP
path of the authentication file for OCI registries

.SS \fB\-\-ctx\-size\fP, \fB\-c\fP
.PP
size of the prompt context (default: 2048, 0 = loaded from model)

.SS \fB\-\-help\fP, \fB\-h\fP
.PP
show this help message and exit

.SS \fB\-\-name\fP, \fB\-n\fP
.PP
name of the container to run the Model in

.SS \fB\-\-seed\fP=
.PP
Specify seed rather than using random seed model interaction

.SS \fB\-\-temp\fP="0.8"
.PP
Temperature of the response from the AI Model
llama.cpp explains this as:

.PP
.RS

.nf
The lower the number is, the more deterministic the response.

The higher the number is the more creative the response is, but more likely to hallucinate when set too high.

    Usage: Lower numbers are good for virtual assistants where we need deterministic responses. Higher numbers are good for roleplay or creative tasks like editing stories

.fi
.RE

.SS \fB\-\-tls\-verify\fP=\fItrue\fP
.PP
require HTTPS and verify certificates when contacting OCI registries

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Run specified AI Model as a chat bot. RamaLama pulls specified AI Model from
registry if it does not exist in local storage. By default a prompt for a chat
bot is started. When arguments are specified, the arguments will be given
to the AI Model and the output returned without entering the chatbot.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Run command without arguments starts a chatbot

.PP
.RS

.nf
ramalama run granite

>

.fi
.RE

.PP
.RS

.nf
ramalama run merlinite "when is the summer solstice"
The summer solstice, which is the longest day of the year, will happen on June ...

.fi
.RE

.PP
Run command with a custom prompt and a file passed by the stdin

.PP
.RS

.nf
cat file.py | ramalama run granite\-code 'what does this program do?'

This program is a Python script that allows the user to interact with a terminal. ...
 [end of text]

.fi
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBramalama(1)\fP

.SH HISTORY
.PP
Aug 2024, Originally compiled by Dan Walsh 
\[la]dwalsh@redhat.com\[ra]
