# TFDocs
*Read Terraform provider documentation in the terminal*

TFDocs is a command-line tool that lets you view provider documentation from the terminal.

> WARNING:
>
> This application is still under active development and has bugs! If you decide to use it anyways and anything goes wrong, please open an issue on the github repo describing the bug and any steps to recreate (if you can, if not just a description of the issue will suffice).

## Usage
### Setup
Before you can view any documentation, you need to initialise the cache. First, navigate to a directory with terraform initialised and run the following command:
```
  tfdocs init
```
This will create a cache file called `.tfdocs.db` in the directory that the command was run. When TFDocs runs, it searches for a cache in the local directory. If you want to run tfdocs from another directory you can move the cache in the filesystem.
<!-- If you want to run tfdocs from another directory you can either pass the -c flag, or you can move the cache in the filesystem. -->


The top-level entrypoint for the interface is called `tfdocs`. Running this command will open the graphical view of the program. A number of flags can be passed to modify its behaviour:
### Global Arguments
- `--verbose`: Allows the user to increase verbosity
- `--serve-logs`: Sends any logs generated by the program while in the GUI to the local log server (accessed using the `watch-logs` subcommand)
- `--help`: View help information

#### Top-level Specific Arguments
- `--provider PROVIDER`: Open the GUI directly to a specified provider

### SubCommands
- `init`: Sub-command that must be run at least once in a working directory in order to generate the local cache
- `watch-logs`: View any logs sent by the program (the main program must be run with `--serve-logs`)

## Installation
### Install Script (trivial, not recommended for secure environments)
 Too busy to fuss with any of the more involved methods? Run this command in a Linux or Mac terminal to install the program:
`curl tfdocs.crease.sh/install | bash`

### PipX (simple, requires Python and PipX, works for any platform)
Tfdocs is published on PyPI under the name `tfdocs-cli`. You can add Tfdocs to a project by running `pip install tfdocs-cli`. If you want to install Tfdocs system-wide in a reliable fashion, it's recommended to use *pipx* instead of `pip install -U tfdocs-cli`. You can use *pipx* like so:
```bash
pipx install tfdocs-cli
```

### Manual Installation on Linux (any distro, no requirements)
This is the current primary method of installation for different platforms. In the future, different repositories for different platforms will be provided.
1. Download the AppImage file from the 'Releases' section on GitHub
  ```
    curl -O https://tfdocs.crease.sh/release/latest/download
  ```
2. Move the executable somewhere on your PATH, typically `/usr/bin/local`
  ```
    mv tfdocs.AppImage /usr/local/bin/tfdocs
  ```
3. Start a new terminal session, or source your shell's init script (i.e. `.bashrc`) again
  ```
    source ~/.bashrc
  ```
  
