---------------------------------------
License for Python code in this package
---------------------------------------
The code in this package is licensed under the GNU General Public License
v3. (See LICENSE_GPL_v3.txt in this directory for the license.)

-------------------------------------------------------------
License for text and audio files in Example 1 of this package
-------------------------------------------------------------
Example 1 in this package contains vocabulary and audio files from Deutsch
im Blick (2nd edition, 2017) and Grimm Grammar. Deutsch im Blick is a free
online first-year German textbook and companion grammar authored by Dr.
Zsuzsanna Abrams and published by the Center for Open Educational Resources
and Language Learning (COERLL) at the University of Texas - Austin.

Deutsch im Blick and Grimm Grammar are licensed under the Creative Commons
Attribution 4.0 International (CC BY 4.0). The data files (.txt files) and
audio files distributed with Example 1 are also licensed under CC BY 4.0.
This is a modification of the original work. This package is not affiliated
with or endorsed by Dr. Abrams or COERLL.

URL of a human-readable summary of the CC BY 4.0 license:
    https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/.

URL of the license itself. The summary is not a substitute for the license:
    https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/legalcode.

The derived work is © 2020-2025 by Ray Griner.

Note the disclaimer of warranties in the CC BY 4.0 license:

Section 5 – Disclaimer of Warranties and Limitation of Liability.

    Unless otherwise separately undertaken by the Licensor, to the extent
possible, the Licensor offers the Licensed Material as-is and as-available,
and makes no representations or warranties of any kind concerning the
Licensed Material, whether express, implied, statutory, or other. This
includes, without limitation, warranties of title, merchantability, fitness
for a particular purpose, non-infringement, absence of latent or other
defects, accuracy, or the presence or absence of errors, whether or not
known or discoverable. Where disclaimers of warranties are not allowed in
full or in part, this disclaimer may not apply to You.
    To the extent possible, in no event will the Licensor be liable to You
on any legal theory (including, without limitation, negligence) or
otherwise for any direct, special, indirect, incidental, consequential,
punitive, exemplary, or other losses, costs, expenses, or damages arising
out of this Public License or use of the Licensed Material, even if the
Licensor has been advised of the possibility of such losses, costs,
expenses, or damages. Where a limitation of liability is not allowed in
full or in part, this limitation may not apply to You.
    The disclaimer of warranties and limitation of liability provided above
shall be interpreted in a manner that, to the extent possible, most closely
approximates an absolute disclaimer and waiver of all liability.

