#
# This file is autogenerated by pip-compile with Python 3.10
# by the following command:
#
#    pip-compile requirements.in
#
asgiref==3.8.1
    # via
    #   flask
    #   opengeodeweb-back
attrs==24.2.0
    # via
    #   jsonschema
    #   opengeodeweb-back
    #   referencing
blinker==1.9.0
    # via
    #   flask
    #   opengeodeweb-back
click==8.1.7
    # via
    #   flask
    #   opengeodeweb-back
flask[async]==3.1.0
    # via
    #   flask-cors
    #   opengeodeweb-back
flask-cors==5.0.0
    # via opengeodeweb-back
geode-background==8.7.5
    # via
    #   geode-explicit
    #   geode-implicit
    #   geode-simplex
    #   opengeodeweb-back
geode-common==33.1.3
    # via
    #   geode-background
    #   geode-conversion
    #   geode-explicit
    #   geode-implicit
    #   geode-numerics
    #   geode-simplex
    #   geode-viewables
    #   opengeodeweb-back
geode-conversion==6.0.18
    # via
    #   geode-explicit
    #   geode-implicit
    #   opengeodeweb-back
geode-explicit==6.1.17
    # via
    #   geode-implicit
    #   opengeodeweb-back
geode-implicit==3.3.5
    # via opengeodeweb-back
geode-numerics==5.2.0
    # via
    #   geode-implicit
    #   geode-simplex
    #   opengeodeweb-back
geode-simplex==8.2.18
    # via
    #   geode-implicit
    #   opengeodeweb-back
geode-viewables==3.0.8
    # via opengeodeweb-back
itsdangerous==2.2.0
    # via
    #   flask
    #   opengeodeweb-back
jinja2==3.1.4
    # via
    #   flask
    #   opengeodeweb-back
jsonschema==4.23.0
    # via opengeodeweb-back
jsonschema-specifications==2024.10.1
    # via
    #   jsonschema
    #   opengeodeweb-back
markupsafe==3.0.2
    # via
    #   jinja2
    #   opengeodeweb-back
    #   werkzeug
opengeode-core==15.6.7
    # via
    #   geode-background
    #   geode-common
    #   geode-conversion
    #   geode-explicit
    #   geode-implicit
    #   geode-numerics
    #   geode-simplex
    #   geode-viewables
    #   opengeode-geosciences
    #   opengeode-geosciencesio
    #   opengeode-inspector
    #   opengeode-io
    #   opengeodeweb-back
opengeode-geosciences==8.2.0
    # via
    #   geode-implicit
    #   geode-viewables
    #   opengeode-geosciencesio
    #   opengeodeweb-back
opengeode-geosciencesio==5.3.2
    # via
    #   geode-implicit
    #   opengeodeweb-back
opengeode-inspector==6.1.15
    # via
    #   geode-explicit
    #   geode-implicit
    #   geode-simplex
    #   opengeodeweb-back
opengeode-io==7.0.7
    # via
    #   geode-implicit
    #   geode-viewables
    #   opengeode-geosciencesio
    #   opengeodeweb-back
opengeodeweb-back==5.4.0
    # via -r requirements.in
referencing==0.35.1
    # via
    #   jsonschema
    #   jsonschema-specifications
    #   opengeodeweb-back
rpds-py==0.21.0
    # via
    #   jsonschema
    #   opengeodeweb-back
    #   referencing
typing-extensions==4.12.2
    # via
    #   asgiref
    #   opengeodeweb-back
werkzeug==3.1.3
    # via
    #   flask
    #   opengeodeweb-back
